CHAPTER 1

Trouble is looming.


Call me Ishmael. A few years ago - no matter how long
I have little or no money in my wallet and nothing.
to be interested in land, I thought I would be interested in a
little and see the watery part of the world. It's a path I have
Displacement of the spleen and regulation of circulation. 
I get grim in my mouth; whenever it is damp,
November drizzles in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily,
in front of the coffin storages and lift the stern of each coffin upwards.
funeral that I meet; and especially when my hypos are so high
Hand from me, that it takes a strong moral principle to prevent me,
of consciously stepping on the street and systematic knocking
Hats off - then I think it is high time to set sail as soon as possible.
as I can. That's my replacement for the gun and the ball. 
philosophical bloom Cato throws himself on his sword; I quietly
Take the ship. This is not surprising. 
knew it, almost all men in their degree, at some point or later, appreciate it
Very much the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

There is now your isolated city of Manhattans, surrounded by
quays like Indian islands through coral reefs - the trade surrounds them with
their surf. Turn right and left and follow the roads downstream. 
Extremely central is the battery, in which the noble mole of
waves, and cooled by breezes that had been off a few hours earlier
Sight of country. Look at the crowds of watchers there.

Bypass the city on a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. 
Corlear's Hook to Coenties slip, and from there, at Whitehall,
Heading north. What do you see? --Posted like silent guardians all around
the city, thousands upon thousands of mortal people stand fortified in the ocean
Dreams. Some leaned on the floods, others perched on the
Pier heads; some look over the bulwarks of ships from China; others
high up in the rigging, as if striving for an even better
Sea dike he peeps. But these are all compatriots; of weekdays, which
Moulding and plaster - tied to counters, nailed to benches,
Desks. How can this be? Have the green fields disappeared? What do they do?
Here?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

But look! here come more crowds, coming directly to the water, and
Apparently on dive station. Strange! Nothing will satisfy them, but
the outermost border of the country; in the shady slipstream of the
The warehouses there will not be enough. No. You just have to get so close
the water as best it can without falling in. And there they have
Miles away from them. Domestic all, they come from alleys
and alleys, streets and avenues - north, east, south and west. But that is not all.
This is where they all unite. Tell me, makes the magnetic virtue of
The needles of the circle of all these ships lure them there?

Again. Say you are in the country, in a highland of lakes.
Take almost any way you want, and ten to one it carries you down
in a valley and leaves you there by a pool in the river. 
Magic in it. Let the most scattered men sink into his life.
Deepest reverence - this man stands on his legs, sets his feet in motion,
and he will unfailingly lead you to the water, when water is in all
this region. Should you ever be thirsty in the great American
Desert, try this experiment if your caravan is randomly powered
with a metaphysical professor. Yes, as everyone knows, meditation
and water are married forever.

But here's an artist. He wants to paint you the most dreamlike,
Most shady, tranquil, enchanting piece of romantic landscape ever
the valley of the Saco. What is the main element he uses? There is no need to panic.
stand its trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a
crucifix were inside; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his
cattle; and out of the hut there rises a sleepy smoke. Deep inside
distant forests, a tangled path winds up to the overlapping foothills of
The mountains bathed themselves in the blue of their hills. But although the picture
lies so tranced, and though this pine shakes off its sighs
like leaves on the head of this shepherd, and yet all were in vain, unless the
Shepherd's eyes were fixed on the magic stream in front of him. 
the prairies in June, wading dozens of miles through the prairie
Knee height among tiger lilies - what is the one attraction?
Missing? --water--there is not a drop of water! Niagara Falls
But a cataract of sand, would you travel a thousand miles to see
It? Why did the poor Tennessee poet suddenly get two
handful of silver, considering whether to buy him a coat, which he
sadly needed, or he invests his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway
Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy boy
Soul in him, sometime crazy to go to sea? Why?
first trip as a passenger, you felt yourself so mystical
vibration when you were first told that you and your ship are no longer
Sight of country? Why did the ancient Persians consider the sea sacred? Why?
the Greeks give him his own deity and brother of Jove? 
None of this is without significance. And even deeper lies the importance of
Narcissus, who, because he could not comprehend history,
agonizing, mild image, which he saw in the well, plunged into it, and
drowned. But we see the same picture in all rivers and lakes.
Oceans. It is the image of the incomprehensible phantom of life; and this
is the key to everything.

When I say now that I am used to going to sea whenever I
begin to get slimy in the eyes, and begin to become aware of the fact that
my lungs, I do not want to suggest that I will ever go to sea, as
A passenger. Because to travel as a passenger, you have to have a handbag,
and a wallet is only a rag, unless you have something in it. 
Passengers fall ill with seasickness - become bickering - do not sleep at night
not much fun, as a common thing; --no, I never go as a
passenger; nor, although I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea
as Commodore, Captain or Cook. I give up the fame and
Distinguishing such offices from those who like them. I for my part, I
abhor all honourable efforts, trials and tribulations
Anyway. s pretty much what I can do to take
to take care of myself, without looking after ships, barges, brigades,
Savers, and what not. And as for cooking, I confess,
There is considerable fame in the fact that a chef is a kind of officer
on board the ship - but somehow I never had the feeling of barbecuing poultry; -
once grilled, carefully buttered and judiciously salted and
There is no one who will speak more respectfully, not to
Say awe-inspiring of a grilled poultry than I want it. 
idols of the ancient Egyptians on fried ibis and fried
hippopotamus that you can see the mummies of these creatures in their
Huge baking houses house the pyramids.

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, directly in front of the mast,
pillows down to the bow, up to the head of the royal mast.
It's true, they would rather order me to do something and get me to jump from the bar to the floor.
Holm, like a grasshopper on a May meadow. And at first glance, this kind of
It's unpleasant enough. It touches your own sense of honour,
especially if you come from a long-established family in the country,
the Van Rensselaers or Randolphs or Hardicanutes. 
everything, if you put your hand in the tar pot,
as a schoolmaster in the countryside, making the tallest boys
In awe of you. I assure you that the transition is proceeding diligently.
from schoolmaster to sailor and requires a strong concoction of
Seneca and the Stoics, so you can grin and bear it. But even if an agreement is reached, it would be a big step in the right direction.
That wears off over time.

What if an old friend of mine at sea had ordered me to take a
Cleaning brooms and sweeping the decks? What does this humiliation amount to?
weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? 
the Archangel Gabriel thinks anything but of me, because I
promptly and respectfully obey that old hares in this special
Instance? Who is not a slave? Tell me. Well, yes, but then the
old sea captains can give me orders - however they may beat and beat
I am happy to know that everything is fine.
that pretty much the same is served to everyone else in one way or another
- either in physical or metaphysical terms; and
Thus the universal blow is passed around, and all hands should rub.
the shoulder blades of the other, and be satisfied.

Again: I always go to sea as a sailor, because they want to
Paying me for my problems while never paying passengers a single penny
Penny that I've ever heard of. On the contrary, the passengers themselves
have to pay. And there is all the difference in the world between
Pay and be paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most important
Unpleasant damage done by the two stray fruit thieves
Us. But BEING PAID - what does it compare to? 
, with which a man receives money, is really wonderful, considering that
that we believe so earnestly that money is the root of all earthly life,
Evil, and that a Beloved can in no case go to Heaven. Oh! 
We merrily abandon ourselves to perdition!

After all, I always go to sea as a sailor because I am healthy.
Movement and pure air from the forecastle deck. Because as in this world,
Headwinds are much more common than winds from the east (i.e. when
They never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so that in most cases the
Commodore on the aft deck gets its second hand atmosphere from
the sailors on the bow. He thinks he breathes it first; but
That is not the case. Similarly, the community guides its leaders in
many other things, at the same time that the leaders draw little suspicion
It. But why was it that after they repeatedly smelled the sea
As a merchant sailor, I should now put it in my head to go on a journey.
whaling trip; this is the invisible policeman of destiny, the
has the constant surveillance of me and pursues me secretly, and
influences me in an irresponsible way - he can answer better than
Everyone else. And no doubt I will go on this whaling trip,
was part of the great program of Providence, which
That was a long time ago. It came as a kind of short interlude and solo
between more extensive performances. I assume that this part of the
The invoice must have looked something like this:


"BIG SELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCE OF THE UNITED STATES.
"DURING VOYAGE OF AN ISHMAEL.
"Bloody battle in AFFGHANISTAN."


Although I cannot say why it was these stage managers,
destinies, laid me down for this shabby part of a whaling trip, when
others have been used for great roles in great tragedies, and
short and light parts in posh comedies and funny parts in
Farcical - although I cannot say why this was exactly the case; but now that I
Remember all the circumstances, I think I can get a little bit into the
Sources and motives, which are presented to me cunningly under
various disguises, caused me to start performing my role,
except to delude me that it was a choice that arose out of it,
from my own unbiased free will and discriminatory judgement.

The main motive was the overwhelming idea of the great
Whale itself. Such a sinister and mysterious monster has awakened everyone.
my curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas, where he
island mass; the undamaged, nameless dangers of the whale; these,
with all the participating wonders of a thousand Patagonian attractions and
sounds, helped to move me to my wish. With other men perhaps, so
Things would not have been incentives, but as far as I am concerned, I torment myself
with an eternal itch for distant things. I love to sail.
Seas and land on barbaric coasts. t ignore what is good, it is me
could quickly perceive a terror and still deal with it socially - would
they let me grant, because it is only right and proper to be on friendly terms with all.
the occupants of the place in which one is accommodated.

For this reason, the whaling trip was welcome.
great flood gates of the wondrous world opened, and in the wilderness
imaginations that moved me to my purpose, two and two there floated in
my innermost soul, endless processions of the whale, and in the middle of most
All of them, a big hooded phantom, like a mound of snow in the air.
